FairUsePolicy.md, before:


<img _ngcontent-c2="" src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/31601407?s=70&amp;u=f3c6e1cfc8a26665e4a4df6d8da4a7ee527aeceb&amp;v=4" style="background-color: transparent;"> 

# Fair Use Policy


This API is protected by copyright laws and is provided only to our players, partners and affiliates.

The use of this resource is subject to our "Fair Use Policy" which is set out below.

Use of the API constitutes your agreement to this policy. You understand and agree that at our sole discretion, and without prior notice, we may block access to our site if we believe that your use of our site has violated or is inconsistent with this Fair Use Policy. 

We may at any time, and at our sole discretion, modify this Fair Use Policy, with or without prior notice. Any such modification will be effective immediately upon public posting. Your continued use of our APIs and this site following such modification constitutes your acceptance of the modified terms in this Fair Use Policy.

 

### Fair usage

The API is provided to players to facilitate wagering and may not be used for data gathering, scraping or for any other purpose. The API usage must be proportionate to wagering activities as determined on a case-by-case basis by Pinnacle.


Unless explicitly agreed in writing by Pinnacle, the commercial usage of the API will lead to the permanent suspension of your access.


You will not attempt, nor encourage others to:
- interfere with, disrupt, or disable any API features;
- use the API for commercial purposes without a written agreement with Pinnacle;
- sell, rent, lease, sublicense, redistribute, or syndicate the API to any third party without prior written approval from Pinnacle.

The following limitations must be observed per sport:

- Requests made for the /fixtures and /odds operation without the since parameter must be restricted to once every 60 seconds;
- Requests made for the /fixtures and /odds operation with the since parameter must be restricted to once every 5 seconds.

 

### Best practice
First issue a snaphost call (without the `since` parameter)  and continue with the delta cals (with the `since` parameter). This would result in faster response time and smaller response payload, as a result, client will have get the odds/fixtures updates faster.

Commit message:

Fair usage updated with /sports and /leagues

FairUsePolicy.md, after:


<img _ngcontent-c2="" src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/31601407?s=70&amp;u=f3c6e1cfc8a26665e4a4df6d8da4a7ee527aeceb&amp;v=4" style="background-color: transparent;"> 

# Fair Use Policy


This API is protected by copyright laws and is provided only to our players, partners and affiliates.

The use of this resource is subject to our "Fair Use Policy" which is set out below.

Use of the API constitutes your agreement to this policy. You understand and agree that at our sole discretion, and without prior notice, we may block access to our site if we believe that your use of our site has violated or is inconsistent with this Fair Use Policy. 

We may at any time, and at our sole discretion, modify this Fair Use Policy, with or without prior notice. Any such modification will be effective immediately upon public posting. Your continued use of our APIs and this site following such modification constitutes your acceptance of the modified terms in this Fair Use Policy.

 

### Fair usage

The API is provided to players to facilitate wagering and may not be used for data gathering, scraping or for any other purpose. The API usage must be proportionate to wagering activities as determined on a case-by-case basis by Pinnacle.


Unless explicitly agreed in writing by Pinnacle, the commercial usage of the API will lead to the permanent suspension of your access.


You will not attempt, nor encourage others to:
- interfere with, disrupt, or disable any API features;
- use the API for commercial purposes without a written agreement with Pinnacle;
- sell, rent, lease, sublicense, redistribute, or syndicate the API to any third party without prior written approval from Pinnacle.


The following limitations must be observed for `/sports` call:
-  Requests made for the `/sports`  must be restricted to once every 60 minute. List of sports does not change often. The count of active events is obsolete functionality, that will eventually be decommissioned.  

The following limitations must be observed per sport:
- Requests made for the `/fixtures` and `/odds` operation without the since parameter must be restricted to once every 60 seconds;
- Requests made for the `/fixtures` and `/odds` operation with the since parameter must be restricted to once every 5 seconds.
- Requests made for the `/leagues` must be restricted to once every 60 minute.
 


### Best practice
First issue a snaphost call (without the `since` parameter)  and continue with the delta cals (with the `since` parameter). This would result in faster response time and smaller response payload, as a result, client will have get the odds/fixtures updates faster.
