FAQ.md, before:

<img _ngcontent-c2="" src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/31601407?s=70&amp;u=f3c6e1cfc8a26665e4a4df6d8da4a7ee527aeceb&amp;v=4" style="background-color: transparent;"> 


# FAQ
### Is home team always team1?
No. 

When placing a bet you must specify `team` , if it's team1/team2 that you are placing a bet on. In `/odds` and `/fixtures` operations,   teams are referred to as home/away. The mapping between home/away and  team1/team2 is specified in the `/leagues`  response in `homeTeamType` property.
For more details on how to place a bet see [Getting Started](https://github.com/pinnacleapi/pinnacleapi-documentation/blob/master/GettingStarted.md)

 
 
 
### How to find associated events?

One can use `parentId` from the  [Get Fixtures](https://pinnacleapi.github.io/linesapi#operation/Fixtures_V1_Get) to group associated events to the "parent" event. 

A few facts that can help:

- We have different events for pregame and live, that can be distinguished  by `liveStatus`.
- Parent events don't have `parentId` and are pre-game events (`liveStatus`=0 or `liveStatus`=2)
- In some cases, we may have more than one live event for the same actual event. 
- Live events (`liveStatus`=1) will always have `parentid` from the moment of creation. 
- Pre-game events will have `parentid` in most case. We take the best-effort approach, but due to various sources of the data, atm it's not possible to guarantee that `parentid` will always be set. 
- For pre-game events `parentId` may not be set right away when the event is created but it will be set before we price the event. 
- Known issue: For some pre-game events in North American leagues and ESports `parentid` may not be set.
 
 
 Example:

 ``` json
 {
    "sportId": 29,
    "last": 148671597,
    "league": [
        {
            "id": 2331,
            "name": "Norway - 1st Division",
            "events": [
                {
                    "id": 837721686,
                    "starts": "2018-04-10T17:00:00Z",
                    "home": "Viking Fk",
                    "away": "Mjondalen",
                    "rotNum": "6751",
                    "liveStatus": 1,
                    "status": "O",
                    "parlayRestriction": 2,
                    "parentId": 834342247,
                    "altTeaser": false
                },
                {
                    "id": 834342247,
                    "starts": "2018-04-10T17:00:00Z",
                    "home": "Viking Fk",
                    "away": "Mjondalen",
                    "rotNum": "6751",
                    "liveStatus": 2,
                    "status": "I",
                    "parlayRestriction": 2,
                    "altTeaser": false
                }
            ]
        },
        {
            "id": 6816,
            "name": "Norway - 1st Division Corners",
            "events": [
                {
                    "id": 837721684,
                    "starts": "2018-04-10T17:00:00Z",
                    "home": "Viking Fk (Corners)",
                    "away": "Mjondalen (Corners)",
                    "rotNum": "6751",
                    "liveStatus": 1,
                    "status": "O",
                    "parlayRestriction": 1,
                    "parentId": 834342247,
                    "altTeaser": false
                },
                {
                    "id": 837721615,
                    "starts": "2018-04-10T17:00:00Z",
                    "home": "Viking Fk (Corners)",
                    "away": "Mjondalen (Corners)",
                    "rotNum": "6751",
                    "liveStatus": 2,
                    "status": "I",
                    "parlayRestriction": 1,
                    "parentId": 834342247,
                    "altTeaser": false
                }
            ]
        }
    ]
} 
```

There is a pre-game parent event id 834342247, that has associated live event id 837721686, but also 2 corner events in different league - one live event (837721684), while the other one for pre-game (837721615)

Introduction of `parentid` eliminates a need for rotation numbers. 
Please note that in the next version of `/fixtures`, the `rotNum` property will be decommissioned.


### When is the market open for betting? 

A market ( `moneyline` , `spreads`, `totals`,  `teamtotal` ) in a period is open for betting if in [Get Odds](https://pinnacleapi.github.io/linesapi#tag/Odds) response all these is true:
1. Period `status` = 1
2. Market exists 
3. Period has `cutoff` is in the future.


Example: When the `moneyline` market is not offered, the whole object will be missing. It's the same for other market types.
```json
                 {
                            "lineId": 527557614,
                            "number": 1,
                            "cutoff": "2018-06-30T21:00:00Z",
                            "maxSpread": 250,
                            "maxTotal": 250,
                            "status": 1,
                            "spreads": [
                                {
                                    "hdp": -0.25,
                                    "home": 140,
                                    "away": -172
                                }
                            ],
                            "totals": [
                                {
                                    "points": 0.75,
                                    "over": -128,
                                    "under": 107
                                }
                            ]
                        }

```
 


Please note that for live events, odds change quite frequently as well as the period `status`. 
Due to these frequent changes, it’s possible that you will be getting status `NOT_EXISTS` in the [Get Line](https://pinnacleapi.github.io/linesapi#operation/Line_Straight_V1_Get) response more often than for the pre-game events.



### How to place a bet on live events?

Bets placed on events with live delay are treated differently than other bets. They get  `betId`  assigned only once they are `ACCEPTED`.


The only way to find out the  `status`  of such a bet is by querying  `/bets?uniqueRequestIds`:

`/bets?uniqueRequestIds=86a90ab9-fca1-4703-a11c-ce329a85584e`

As long as the bet is in `PENDING_ACCEPTANCE`, the response would be:

```json
{
    "straightBets": [
        {
            "uniqueRequestId": "86a90ab9-fca1-4703-a11c-ce329a85584e",
            "betStatus": "PENDING_ACCEPTANCE"
        }
    ]
}

```



NOTE: Status can change from `PENDING_ACCEPTANCE` to `NOT_ACCEPTED` or `ACCEPTED`


If the bet was `NOT_ACCEPTED`, the response would be:

```json

{
    "straightBets": [
        {
            "uniqueRequestId": "86a90ab9-fca1-4703-a11c-ce329a85584e",
            "betStatus": "NOT_ACCEPTED"
        }
    ]
}


```

If the bet was `ACCEPTED`, the response includes the full bet details:

```json

{
    "straightBets": [
        {
            "betId": 800110193,
            "uniqueRequestId": "86a90ab9-fca1-4703-a11c-ce329a85584e",
            "wagerNumber": 1,
            "placedAt": "2017-12-20T21:57:22Z",
            "betStatus": "ACCEPTED",
            "betType": "MONEYLINE",
            "win": 2519.25,
            "risk": 11991.63,
            "oddsFormat": "AMERICAN",
            "updateSequence": 175277412,
            "sportId": 29,
            "leagueId": 5595,
            "eventId": 799939900,
            "price": -476,
            "teamName": "Universitario",
            "team1": "Universitario",
            "team2": "Club Petrolero",
            "periodNumber": 0,
            "isLive": "TRUE"
        }
    ]
}
 
```

We apply live delay of around 6 seconds, so the first call to  `/bets`  should be 6 seconds after placing a bet. 

30 minutes after placing a bet, we will stop returning a response for provided uniqueRequestId. This is due to cache cleanup to maintain optimal performance.

Please also note that the `RUNNING` bet list does not return any live delay bets that are `PENDING_ACCEPTANCE` or `NOT_ACCEPTED`.




### How do I get access to the API as an affiliate?

In order to access the API as an affiliate, you are required to send 5 new funded signups from the previous 3 months. If you are unable to refer 5 new funded signups from the previous 3-month period, access to the API may be rescinded.

### How often can I refresh your odds?

Please check our fair use policy

### How do I make sure my links to www.pinnacle.com are tracking correctly?

Please ensure that any links back to  www.pinnacle.com  are tagged with your tracking link. 
Your tracking links are available from your affiliate account accessed at  http://affiliates.pinnacle.com

A correct tracking link will have the format:   http://affiliates.pinnacle.com/processing/clickthrgh.asp?btag=a_numbersb_numbers

### Do you cache responses? For how long?

`Get Odds`  and  `Get Fixtures`  snapshot calls are cached for 60 seconds.  
`Get Odds`  and  `Get Fixtures`  delta calls are not cached.

### Can I link directly to the relevant odds pages on www.pinnacle.com (deep linking)?

Yes. To link directly to our odds pages, please contact customerservice@pinnacle.com

### How can I return only those sports and leagues which have data?

`Get Sports`  and  `Get Leagues`  operations have the  `hasOfferings`  property that indicates availability of the markets.

### How do you calculate maximum bet amounts for currencies other than USD?

We follow oanda.com, and update our exchange rates every 24 hours. Please note that for non-USD currencies, we round them to the largest integer less-than or equal-to the specified decimal number resulting from currency conversion. For example, a maximum bet amount of £345.23 would be rounded down to £345.

### What time zone is used for the API?

All times are GMT.

### How can I know if an event is deleted or settled?

Please use  `Get Settled Fixtures`  to find out if the event's period was settled or if the event was deleted.


### How to get odds changes?

1) Call the snapshot /odds (without the since parameter) - this would return cached odds snapshot
2) Call the delta /odds (with the `since` parameter,  from the snapshot response) - to get all the changes since the snapshot.

Delta response has only changed periods, with all the markets that are currently offered. For example, if we offer period 0 and period 1 odds on an event and there was a change in one of the markets in period 1, the delta call will have only period 1 with all the markets that we currently offer, not just the changed markets, and the period 0 will not be in the delta response.

Example:

1) Snapshot call returns period `number`=1 and period `number`=0 , and both of them have `moneyline` and `spreads` odds.
2) Subsequent, Delta call returns just period 1 with the `moneyline` and `totals`
    
 => This means that the period `number`=0 did not have any changes, and on the period `number`=1 , the `spreads` is not offered anymore while the `totals` are offered now and the `moneyline` may have new prices
 
 ### What TLS (Transport Layer Security) versions are supported?
 
 To be compliant with the security requirements API supports only TLS 1.2 (preferably ) and TLS 1.1.
 
 
 ### Why am I getting denied access on Esports?
 Access to Esports is blocked and requires special authorization. To get the access please contact b2b@pinnacle.com and explain your business case. 
 
 ### Why am I getting `NOT_EXISTS` when calling `/line` operation?
 
 These are possible reasons:

1) Not sending correct  `periodNumber`, `eventid` , `leagueid` or `sportId`

It is not a rare situation that the actual match is offered with more than one event.
Different periods of the same actual match can be offered with the different events - period 0 can be  offered in `eventid` X and period 1 can be offered on `eventid` Y. It may also happen that for the same  `periodNumber` we offer `MONEYLINE` on `eventid`  X but `TOTAL` on `eventid`  Y.


2) Period `cutoff` date time is in the past.

3) Selection has no prices at the moment.

4) Not sending correct `handicap`, `team` or `side`

5) Period `status`=2 , offline

### How to detect deleted events?
Sometimes an event can be deleted from the system, in such a case, since `/fixtures` would not return deleted events,  the event will be returned in `/fixtures/settled` with the period `number`=0 and `status`=5 
 
 ```json
  {
                    "id": 933912855,
                    "periods": [
                        {
                            "number": 0,
                            "status": 5,
                            "settlementId": 3637379,
                            "settledAt": "2018-12-24T02:12:06.707Z",
                            "team1Score": 0,
                            "team2Score": 0
                        }
                    ]
                },
 
 ```
### How to handle unexpected error on placing a bet?
If you get any unexpected error upon calling a place bet operation,  that does NOT mean that your bet was not placed.
You must check if the bet was placed by calling the [`bets?uniqueRequestIds={comma separated uniqueRequestIds}`](https://pinnacleapi.github.io/betsapi#operation/Bets_GetBetsByTypeV3).
If you have a retry logic, make sure you reuse the same uniqueRequestId in the place bet request. 
For more details on how uniqueRequestId works, please check [Deduplication](https://github.com/pinnacleapi/pinnacleapi-documentation#deduplication).

Commit message:

Added: How to handle RESUBMIT_REQUEST

FAQ.md, after:

<img _ngcontent-c2="" src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/31601407?s=70&amp;u=f3c6e1cfc8a26665e4a4df6d8da4a7ee527aeceb&amp;v=4" style="background-color: transparent;"> 


# FAQ
### Is home team always team1?
No. 

When placing a bet you must specify `team` , if it's team1/team2 that you are placing a bet on. In `/odds` and `/fixtures` operations,   teams are referred to as home/away. The mapping between home/away and  team1/team2 is specified in the `/leagues`  response in `homeTeamType` property.
For more details on how to place a bet see [Getting Started](https://github.com/pinnacleapi/pinnacleapi-documentation/blob/master/GettingStarted.md)

 
 
 
### How to find associated events?

One can use `parentId` from the  [Get Fixtures](https://pinnacleapi.github.io/linesapi#operation/Fixtures_V1_Get) to group associated events to the "parent" event. 

A few facts that can help:

- We have different events for pregame and live, that can be distinguished  by `liveStatus`.
- Parent events don't have `parentId` and are pre-game events (`liveStatus`=0 or `liveStatus`=2)
- In some cases, we may have more than one live event for the same actual event. 
- Live events (`liveStatus`=1) will always have `parentid` from the moment of creation. 
- Pre-game events will have `parentid` in most case. We take the best-effort approach, but due to various sources of the data, atm it's not possible to guarantee that `parentid` will always be set. 
- For pre-game events `parentId` may not be set right away when the event is created but it will be set before we price the event. 
- Known issue: For some pre-game events in North American leagues and ESports `parentid` may not be set.
 
 
 Example:

 ``` json
 {
    "sportId": 29,
    "last": 148671597,
    "league": [
        {
            "id": 2331,
            "name": "Norway - 1st Division",
            "events": [
                {
                    "id": 837721686,
                    "starts": "2018-04-10T17:00:00Z",
                    "home": "Viking Fk",
                    "away": "Mjondalen",
                    "rotNum": "6751",
                    "liveStatus": 1,
                    "status": "O",
                    "parlayRestriction": 2,
                    "parentId": 834342247,
                    "altTeaser": false
                },
                {
                    "id": 834342247,
                    "starts": "2018-04-10T17:00:00Z",
                    "home": "Viking Fk",
                    "away": "Mjondalen",
                    "rotNum": "6751",
                    "liveStatus": 2,
                    "status": "I",
                    "parlayRestriction": 2,
                    "altTeaser": false
                }
            ]
        },
        {
            "id": 6816,
            "name": "Norway - 1st Division Corners",
            "events": [
                {
                    "id": 837721684,
                    "starts": "2018-04-10T17:00:00Z",
                    "home": "Viking Fk (Corners)",
                    "away": "Mjondalen (Corners)",
                    "rotNum": "6751",
                    "liveStatus": 1,
                    "status": "O",
                    "parlayRestriction": 1,
                    "parentId": 834342247,
                    "altTeaser": false
                },
                {
                    "id": 837721615,
                    "starts": "2018-04-10T17:00:00Z",
                    "home": "Viking Fk (Corners)",
                    "away": "Mjondalen (Corners)",
                    "rotNum": "6751",
                    "liveStatus": 2,
                    "status": "I",
                    "parlayRestriction": 1,
                    "parentId": 834342247,
                    "altTeaser": false
                }
            ]
        }
    ]
} 
```

There is a pre-game parent event id 834342247, that has associated live event id 837721686, but also 2 corner events in different league - one live event (837721684), while the other one for pre-game (837721615)

Introduction of `parentid` eliminates a need for rotation numbers. 
Please note that in the next version of `/fixtures`, the `rotNum` property will be decommissioned.


### When is the market open for betting? 

A market ( `moneyline` , `spreads`, `totals`,  `teamtotal` ) in a period is open for betting if in [Get Odds](https://pinnacleapi.github.io/linesapi#tag/Odds) response all these is true:
1. Period `status` = 1
2. Market exists 
3. Period has `cutoff` is in the future.


Example: When the `moneyline` market is not offered, the whole object will be missing. It's the same for other market types.
```json
                 {
                            "lineId": 527557614,
                            "number": 1,
                            "cutoff": "2018-06-30T21:00:00Z",
                            "maxSpread": 250,
                            "maxTotal": 250,
                            "status": 1,
                            "spreads": [
                                {
                                    "hdp": -0.25,
                                    "home": 140,
                                    "away": -172
                                }
                            ],
                            "totals": [
                                {
                                    "points": 0.75,
                                    "over": -128,
                                    "under": 107
                                }
                            ]
                        }

```
 


Please note that for live events, odds change quite frequently as well as the period `status`. 
Due to these frequent changes, it’s possible that you will be getting status `NOT_EXISTS` in the [Get Line](https://pinnacleapi.github.io/linesapi#operation/Line_Straight_V1_Get) response more often than for the pre-game events.



### How to place a bet on live events?

Bets placed on events with live delay are treated differently than other bets. They get  `betId`  assigned only once they are `ACCEPTED`.


The only way to find out the  `status`  of such a bet is by querying  `/bets?uniqueRequestIds`:

`/bets?uniqueRequestIds=86a90ab9-fca1-4703-a11c-ce329a85584e`

As long as the bet is in `PENDING_ACCEPTANCE`, the response would be:

```json
{
    "straightBets": [
        {
            "uniqueRequestId": "86a90ab9-fca1-4703-a11c-ce329a85584e",
            "betStatus": "PENDING_ACCEPTANCE"
        }
    ]
}

```



NOTE: Status can change from `PENDING_ACCEPTANCE` to `NOT_ACCEPTED` or `ACCEPTED`


If the bet was `NOT_ACCEPTED`, the response would be:

```json

{
    "straightBets": [
        {
            "uniqueRequestId": "86a90ab9-fca1-4703-a11c-ce329a85584e",
            "betStatus": "NOT_ACCEPTED"
        }
    ]
}


```

If the bet was `ACCEPTED`, the response includes the full bet details:

```json

{
    "straightBets": [
        {
            "betId": 800110193,
            "uniqueRequestId": "86a90ab9-fca1-4703-a11c-ce329a85584e",
            "wagerNumber": 1,
            "placedAt": "2017-12-20T21:57:22Z",
            "betStatus": "ACCEPTED",
            "betType": "MONEYLINE",
            "win": 2519.25,
            "risk": 11991.63,
            "oddsFormat": "AMERICAN",
            "updateSequence": 175277412,
            "sportId": 29,
            "leagueId": 5595,
            "eventId": 799939900,
            "price": -476,
            "teamName": "Universitario",
            "team1": "Universitario",
            "team2": "Club Petrolero",
            "periodNumber": 0,
            "isLive": "TRUE"
        }
    ]
}
 
```

We apply live delay of around 6 seconds, so the first call to  `/bets`  should be 6 seconds after placing a bet. 

30 minutes after placing a bet, we will stop returning a response for provided uniqueRequestId. This is due to cache cleanup to maintain optimal performance.

Please also note that the `RUNNING` bet list does not return any live delay bets that are `PENDING_ACCEPTANCE` or `NOT_ACCEPTED`.




### How do I get access to the API as an affiliate?

In order to access the API as an affiliate, you are required to send 5 new funded signups from the previous 3 months. If you are unable to refer 5 new funded signups from the previous 3-month period, access to the API may be rescinded.

### How often can I refresh your odds?

Please check our fair use policy

### How do I make sure my links to www.pinnacle.com are tracking correctly?

Please ensure that any links back to  www.pinnacle.com  are tagged with your tracking link. 
Your tracking links are available from your affiliate account accessed at  http://affiliates.pinnacle.com

A correct tracking link will have the format:   http://affiliates.pinnacle.com/processing/clickthrgh.asp?btag=a_numbersb_numbers

### Do you cache responses? For how long?

`Get Odds`  and  `Get Fixtures`  snapshot calls are cached for 60 seconds.  
`Get Odds`  and  `Get Fixtures`  delta calls are not cached.

### Can I link directly to the relevant odds pages on www.pinnacle.com (deep linking)?

Yes. To link directly to our odds pages, please contact customerservice@pinnacle.com

### How can I return only those sports and leagues which have data?

`Get Sports`  and  `Get Leagues`  operations have the  `hasOfferings`  property that indicates availability of the markets.

### How do you calculate maximum bet amounts for currencies other than USD?

We follow oanda.com, and update our exchange rates every 24 hours. Please note that for non-USD currencies, we round them to the largest integer less-than or equal-to the specified decimal number resulting from currency conversion. For example, a maximum bet amount of £345.23 would be rounded down to £345.

### What time zone is used for the API?

All times are GMT.

### How can I know if an event is deleted or settled?

Please use  `Get Settled Fixtures`  to find out if the event's period was settled or if the event was deleted.


### How to get odds changes?

1) Call the snapshot /odds (without the since parameter) - this would return cached odds snapshot
2) Call the delta /odds (with the `since` parameter,  from the snapshot response) - to get all the changes since the snapshot.

Delta response has only changed periods, with all the markets that are currently offered. For example, if we offer period 0 and period 1 odds on an event and there was a change in one of the markets in period 1, the delta call will have only period 1 with all the markets that we currently offer, not just the changed markets, and the period 0 will not be in the delta response.

Example:

1) Snapshot call returns period `number`=1 and period `number`=0 , and both of them have `moneyline` and `spreads` odds.
2) Subsequent, Delta call returns just period 1 with the `moneyline` and `totals`
    
 => This means that the period `number`=0 did not have any changes, and on the period `number`=1 , the `spreads` is not offered anymore while the `totals` are offered now and the `moneyline` may have new prices
 
 ### What TLS (Transport Layer Security) versions are supported?
 
 To be compliant with the security requirements API supports only TLS 1.2 (preferably ) and TLS 1.1.
 
 
 ### Why am I getting denied access on Esports?
 Access to Esports is blocked and requires special authorization. To get the access please contact b2b@pinnacle.com and explain your business case. 
 
 ### Why am I getting `NOT_EXISTS` when calling `/line` operation?
 
 These are possible reasons:

1) Not sending correct  `periodNumber`, `eventid` , `leagueid` or `sportId`

It is not a rare situation that the actual match is offered with more than one event.
Different periods of the same actual match can be offered with the different events - period 0 can be  offered in `eventid` X and period 1 can be offered on `eventid` Y. It may also happen that for the same  `periodNumber` we offer `MONEYLINE` on `eventid`  X but `TOTAL` on `eventid`  Y.


2) Period `cutoff` date time is in the past.

3) Selection has no prices at the moment.

4) Not sending correct `handicap`, `team` or `side`

5) Period `status`=2 , offline

### How to detect deleted events?
Sometimes an event can be deleted from the system, in such a case, since `/fixtures` would not return deleted events,  the event will be returned in `/fixtures/settled` with the period `number`=0 and `status`=5 
 
 ```json
  {
                    "id": 933912855,
                    "periods": [
                        {
                            "number": 0,
                            "status": 5,
                            "settlementId": 3637379,
                            "settledAt": "2018-12-24T02:12:06.707Z",
                            "team1Score": 0,
                            "team2Score": 0
                        }
                    ]
                },
 
 ```
### How to handle unexpected error when placing a bet?
If you get any unexpected error upon calling a place bet operation,  that does NOT mean that your bet was not placed.
You must check if the bet was placed by calling the [`bets?uniqueRequestIds={comma separated uniqueRequestIds}`](https://pinnacleapi.github.io/betsapi#operation/Bets_GetBetsByTypeV3).
If you have a retry logic, make sure you reuse the same uniqueRequestId in the place bet request. 
For more details on how uniqueRequestId works, please check [Deduplication](https://github.com/pinnacleapi/pinnacleapi-documentation#deduplication).

### How to handle RESUBMIT_REQUEST error when placing a bet?
This error signals it was not possible to process place bet request. It is mostly caused by our system being in the middle of processing a price change. Error is more common in Live betting compared to the prematch. Client can retry and send the same bet request again but after getting this error the first time, a retry would be often rejected due to a price change.
